I'd like to reinforce the fact that this is a tentative suggestion only and is 
in no way final. It probably fails to account for all possible scenarios, 
virtual or real.

After selecting the restaurant and table, the next screen should focus on the 
selecting and optionally sharing of menu items. I propose that this screen 
be split into three sections:
1. who's currently on your table
2. what items you have selected
3. the menu

Section 1 will be a horizontal bar at the top of the screen containing the 
avatars of the people currently registered to your table. The icons should 
be horizontally scrollable if there are too many icons to fit on the screen.
Any new entries should automatically be appended to the list. If there is no 
image to use as an avatar, some other indicator such as name should be used.

Section 2 will be another horizontal icon bar below section 1 but instead will 
contain the items the user has already selected. When empty, it should 
indicate that this is where menu items should be placed. This bar can also be 
scrolled. There should also be some indication of the total price of the 
selected items, taking into account the split cost of shared items. Perhaps it 
could indicate the cost of each item as well if it doesn't clutter everything.

Section 3 will contain the menu itself, a mosaic of images of each item on the 
menu. The items should be sorted by category (eg. main course, desert, drinks).
Each category will have its own page, themed by a colour (eg. red for main 
courses) and these pages can be switched by scrolling the screen left/right or 
via coloured tabs along the bottom. All icons of items belonging to a certain 
category should be bordered by the same colour (eg. a steak has a red border).
Scrolling up/down will reveal any menu items that can't fit in one screen. 
Eventually something should indicate that the bottom of the page has been 
reached. Section 3 will be larger than sections 1 and 2 combined.

Above section 1 will be a confirm order button that dims whenever 
anything is dragged, perhaps even a pay button as well noted in i).

Concerning layout:
The flow of the app would probably be from section 3 to section 2 and sometimes 
to section 1, then the buttons above 1. However, to make it more natural, it 
may be better to have section 3 on top (then the category tabs will be on top, 
then section 2 under it, then section 1, then the order and payment buttons. 
This would make more sense since we tend to go from top to bottom. The order 
and payment buttons should not be put near something which is often pressed 
to avoid accidental presses, so section 1 is chosen since it is probably the 
least used section.

We probably can't fit the full title of each coloured tab in section 3, so it 
would probably be best to only show the active tabs title and leave common 
sense and memory to figure out the rest of the colours (eg. desert is to the 
left of main course).

The following will detail how actions are performed:

Notes:
"Item" refers to menu items (individual dishes, drinks).

"Dragging"/"holding" an item will be done by pressing and holding over an item 
until it 'frees' itself and then can be moved by dragging it (this is identical 
to how Android handles its app icons). This is so flicking across the screen 
can be used to scroll without the need of scroll bars while still keeping the 
drag and drop.

Possibly, "dimmed" sections could block the movement of the dragged item to 
reinforce the idea that it can't be placed there (at no point is section 2 
exclusively dimmed, so it should not make any drag operation impossible).

If anything is held, any popups should wait until nothing is held before 
showing.

a) Selecting an item
Performed by dragging an item from section 3 to section 2. When an item is 
'held', section 1 should dim, showing where the user should can drag the 
item.

b) Removing an item
Performed by dragging an item back from section 2 to section 3. When an item 
is held, section 3 should show a trash can icon and "cancel"/"remove" etc. 
Section 1 should not dim for e).

c) Rearranging items/avatars
Performed by dragging an item from section 1 or 2 to another position in 
section 1 or 2 respectively. When dragging an avatar (from section 1), all 
other sections should dim.

d) Requesting further details
Performed by tapping any menu item in any section. Opens up a popup that fills
section 3 (or the entire screen) with details and a larger image. Tapping 
outside the popup/on a cross at the top right should exit. Details should 
include further images, the cost, the nutritional information (at least basics 
like calorie count), 'flavour' text and if shared, all people that specific 
item is shared with. Note that if two of the same item are ordered, they are 
independent of each other and as such, one being shared is independent of the 
other being shared.

Note that options (mentioned in further considerations below) or shared users 
are only relevant if the item is already sitting in section 2. It should 
somehow indicate that options are available for the item.

e) Sharing an item
Performed by dragging a menu item from section 2 to section 1. Note that 
section 1 is not dimmed in b) when an item is dragged from section 2. When the 
item is dragged over section 1, the avatar beneath should enlarge/highlight. 
If the avatar in question is off the screen, moving the item to the edges of 
the screen should scroll it. Once the item is released, it has entered a 
'share pending' state.

In the 'share pending' state, a request to share is sent to the other person. 
This will be in the form of a popup asking whether the user wants to share 
the specified dish with a specified person (once again, the picture of the 
food can be tapped to show further details). If the person accepts, that item 
will be in a 'shared' state, otherwise it will remain unshared and return to 
its original state of only being ordered by the original person. Once shared, 
the item will appear on both user's section 2.

Sharing one item with one other person twice is probably human error and as 
such a popup should indicate that nothing has happened and the dish is 
already shared with the target user.

Sharing an already shared item with someone else will send a share request 
to said someone else, with avatars of all other people already sharing the 
item and the item in question. if that someone else accepts it, the item 
is shared with one more person.

f) Viewing who shared the dish with you
Once an item is in a 'shared' state, the item will have some indicator that 
it's shared with one or more people. Tapping a shared icon will produce a 
popup that not only contains further details as in d), but who the item is 
shared with.

g) Cancelling a shared item
Done as normal in b).

h) Making the order
Performed by pressing the 'confirm order' button above section 1. It should 
then switch to a screen with a list of all the items that you ordered, and if 
shared, the people who you are sharing the items with along with a price tag.
Then, another confirmation is required before the order is placed at the bottom 
of this screen. After the second confirmation, it returns to the menu screen 
ready to accept more orders. Items that were already ordered remain in section 
2 but are greyed out or somehow indicated that they can't be removed*. If a 
shared item is confirmed then this item will appear greyed out to all relevant 
people automatically. If some user has 'held' the shared item, it will be 
automatically dropped back in place. Any further items added to section 2 will 
be placed to the left of the already ordered items (no matter what).

*Unless there is some way for the restaurant to indicate when the order can't 
be cancelled, in which it would indicate that it's 'ordered' first, then after 
it can't be cancelled, it will appear 'locked out'. This way, the app is more 
forgiving.

i) The bill
I'm not sure when or how the user confirms the final payment, after all orders 
are complete and any items 'on the house' have been indicated and deducted from 
the total cost. Perhaps there should be another button above the confirm order 
button that once pressed, shows the detailed cheque (as well as an option to 
save the cheque), then asks for a final payment confirmation (so any mistakes 
can be found and dealt with) and then waits for all other users at the table 
to confirm their final payments before sending the payment (securely). Once 
again, this process can be cancelled at any point before the payment is sent.

Further considerations:
- Options like "ketchup" for fries or "milk" for coffee in the further details
section of the item.
- Combo icons for meal combos, with the further details containing the choices 
such as whether you'd like cola or pepsi with your combo.

Unnecessary but nice features:
- Methods to request other services from the restaurant such as asking for a 
water refill or more BBQ sauce.
- An option to give feedback to the restaurant and/or write a review on some 
popular restaurant review site after payment is made.